---
title: 3.B Project - Designing an App Part 1
unit: Intro to App Design
order: 3
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Brainstorm and choose a topic to develop into an app
  - Use feedback to help guide the design of an app
  - Design the user interface of an app
---

## Warm-Up

<div class="text-xl" style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> People design user interfaces to meet a user's needs, but they don't always get it right.</p>
  
  <ul>
    <li>Have you ever used an app where the user interface didn't actually meet your needs?</li>
    <li>What was the problem?</li>
    <li>What do you think the designers didn't understand about you or your needs?</li>
  </ul>
</div>

## Generating an Idea

In last lesson, we learned all about Design Mode. Today you're going to start developing your own app that educates a user on a topic. This is a project that will continue through the rest of the unit.

You will be working with a partner, so you only need one copy shared between the two of you. Be sure you also share your document with me (dbailey@k12k.com).

[Make a Copy of the Activity Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SbVkHtwkm_TATAQiiqY068SUi8BzF5alkqpl8e9m8bg/copy){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

### Step 1: Brainstorm Topic Ideas

The first step you'll complete on your own. Take a minute to generate a list of ideas for an app. Your app should teach your classmates about any topic you and your partner agree on. Your topics could be a hobby, something you’ve always been interested in, a piece of your personal history, or just something you think your classmates should learn more about.

### Step 2: Choose a Topic

Working with your partner, narrow down your ideas to one topic and explain what will be covered in your app.

#### Avoiding Bias

You will work with a partner on this project. Collaboration is a big part of app development. Your team's diverse ideas will help make your app even better, because each partner can keep a lookout for bias.

Here's an example: A team member puts in their app the phrase: "All teenagers work after school to earn spending money" because this is their experience - they work after school themselves. However, the other team member may not have an after school job, and because of this can point out the bias in that statement.

Collaboration is key to catching bias in your work!

Here's another example, this time in the design of an app. A team wants to make an app to encourage girls to sign up for a summer camp. One team member assumes that because this app is aimed at girls, the background should be pink. A girl on the team points out that she does not like pink, and using that color in the design may represent bias.

As you think about your topics and start designing your apps, remember to keep an eye out for bias and use your team mates to keep you accountable!

### Step 3: Survey Your Classmates

The goal in this step is for your to understand the needs of your users. This should inform the overall design of the app.

### Step 4: Design the User Interface

Use the screen templates to sketch out the design of your app, including arrows or notes to show how different elements are connected.

## Building Your Idea in App Lab

The design you sketched out is a prototype of your app. A prototype helps you plan the looks and features of your app before you program it."

[Open the App Lab on Code.org](https://studio.code.org/s/csp3-2020/stage/4/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

### Step 5: Check Out the Example

After looking at this app and the prototype, you may want to make a few adjustments to your own prototypes. Take a few minutes to update your design.

When you are finished, move on to Level 3 where you will start creating your user interfaces in App Lab!

### Step 6: Work with Your Partner

You will work with your partner to build out your screens. You will need to trade off and work together to finish out your screens. Consider what IDs you choose for elements on your screens carefully. 

## Wrap-Up

In the following lessons, you will continue to plan and create you apps. What are we doing here? We are following a development process, which is similar to what developers use in the real world when creating their own apps. A development process breaks down the steps into small pieces - we've completed the first few today.

There are many different versions of the development process. Most use some combination of investigating and reflecting, designing, prototyping and testing. Development processes can be ordered like we have laid out in the Activity Guide or more exploratory in nature. As we continue on through this project, reflect on the steps and consider how they help organize the process.
