---
title: 3.A The Need for Programming Languages
unit: Intro to App Design
order: 4
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Justify the existence of programming languages to precisely communicate instructions
  - Explain the qualities that differentiate natural languages and programming languages
dropbox:
  title: 3.A Unit 3 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35279
---

## Warm-Up

Let's look at what it takes to write "good" instructions. We all use instructions all the time, whether it's directions to get somewhere, instructions to fill out a form, or even instructions from teachers. To help us get started, let's brainstorm what "bad" instructions" look like.

We're going to do a little oragmi. We'll work with a partner to build an oragami shape. However, one partner will have the set of instructions and the other will have to execute those instructions. The partner completing the oragami may not see the instructions, nor can they ask questions. They can only follow them to the best of their ability.

<div class="text-xl" style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> Now discuss with your partner. When you or your classmates made mistakes following instructions today what "went wrong"? Try to be as specific as possible.</p>
</div>

## Wrap-Up

Even trying to be as clear as possible we struggled to write clear instructions. There are things we could do to improve, but the core challenge here is that everyday human language is bad for giving clear instructions. Words can have two or three meanings! Instructions that seem clear turn out to be vague when we actually go follow them. If we want to give clear instructions, we need to fundamentally change the language we use. We need to create a new kind of language.

<div class="text-xl" style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> Imagine we were going to redesign human language to be really good for giving clear instructions. What types of changes would we need to make?</p>
</div>

Today we talked a lot about instructions because soon we're going start programming your apps. When you write a program you're just giving instructions to a computer for what it should do to run your app. As you'll see, the programming language we use to give these instructions sometimes looks like English, but then has a lot of weird (and sometimes confusing) differences. This is because it needs to be more precise and unambiguous than normal human language. We'll dive into this more next!
