---
title: 3.A Intro to Programming
unit: Intro to App Design
order: 5
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Define a program as a sequence of commands that are executed or run by a computer
  - Explain the differences between how sequential and event-driven programs execute
  - Define comments as notes or documentation into a program that do not affect how the program executes
dropbox:
  title: 3.A Unit 3 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35279
---

## Warm-Up

In the previous lesson, we learned that we need to create a new kind of language, a programming language, in order to clearly communicate instructions. Today is a big day. We're going to get our first taste of what programming looks like, and we'll see different ways we can use these tools to communicate our instructions to a computer.

## App Lab

[Open the App Lab on Code.org](https://studio.code.org/s/csp3-2020/stage/6/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

## Wrap-Up

<div class="text-xl" style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> Think about your experiences today and in the previous lesson. How is a programming language different from natural language?</p>
</div>

Today was our first chance to check out what programming in App Lab is like. So far we've only learned a few functions but we've already seen they'll let us make a wide variety of types of programs. We're going to get a lot more time to practice using them, but before we do let's talk about some vocabulary of the vocabulary to make sure we're using the same words to talk about what we saw today.

- Program Statement
- Program
- Sequential Programming
- Event Driven Programming

It's important to remember that programs need to work for a variety of inputs and outputs. That's what makes programming interactive apps so fun! Today, you also learned how to describe the behavior of a program, or how the program works when it's run and how the user interacts with it. When we talk about how programs run, we can describe both what the program does and specifically how the program statements accomplish this goal. We're going to keep practicing using these words and going forward you're going to get more chance to practice programming. Start thinking about how you might want to use what you learned today in your project.
