---
title: 3.A Debugging
unit: Intro to App Design
order: 6
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Debug simple sequential and event-driven programs
  - Use the debugging process and Identify specific best practices for debugging programs
  - Use the speed slider, break points, and documentation as part of the debugging process
dropbox:
  title: 3.A Unit 3 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35279
---

## Warm-Up

<div class="text-xl" style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> Your friend calls and says "I can't get music to come out of my speakers, can you help?". Write a quick list of everything you'd ask them or have them check to try to fix the problem.</p>
</div>

Now we're going to practice programming, but we're also going to practice a very important skill in programming called "debugging". Let's see what it looks like.

## Practice Time

{% include responsive.html source="https://www.youtube.com/embed/auv10y-dN4s" %}

We're going to use this process to help us fix programs. I want you to use this process as you fix issues you find in code today. At the end of the lesson we'll talk more about this process and any specific strategies you document along the way.

[Open the App Lab on Code.org](https://studio.code.org/s/csp3-2020/stage/7/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

**Do This:** Complete puzzles 2-8.

## Wrap-Up

<div class="text-xl" style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> If you were using the debugging process then you should have some notes of good debugging tips. What are some tips you would share with someone just starting to learn how to debug?</p>
</div>

Debugging is an important and entirely normal part of programming. Your code won't always work the first time, and that's OK! Debugging is a skill that you can practice and get better at. Using documentation and leaving comments for yourself are important skills, but so is working with classmates or learning to more effectively search for bugs. We'll keep using these skills.

Let's take a minute to talk more about **comments** and **documentation**. Comments help explain the code, but do not affect how the program runs. They are meant to be read by people! When we write code, we don't only write for the computer we also write for other people. It's important that others can understand our code, so write your code clearly using the practices we discussed and comments.

Not all programming environments support comments, so other forms of documentation may be important like keeping a separate document with information about your program. The key takeaway here, is no matter what the format, comments and documentation are important!

As you grow in your programming skills, you will start to appreciate how valuable comments can be. You don't have to wait until a program is complete to write the comments. You should be doing this as you develop the project. There will be opportunities to write comments called out in the App project you are currently working on.
