---
title: 4.A Conditionals Investigate
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 3
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Identify common programming patterns using boolean expressions and conditional statements
  - Explain the purpose of those programming patterns with boolean expressions and conditional statements both in terms of how they work and what they accomplish
  - Modify apps that make use of common programming patterns with boolean expressions and conditional statements to adjust their functionality
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Warm-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> A water park will let a visitor on a ride if they are 48 or more inches tall OR they are 14 years old or older. Make a flowchart for this decision. Make sure to use comparison operators (<, >, ==, etc. ) and logical operators (&&, ||, !) when you write your Boolean expression.</p>
</div>

In everyday conversation it is common to switch between using the words "when" and "if". Here's some examples of what this looks like

- "When the user clicks the button..."
- "If the user clicks the button..."
- "When the user has more than 100 points..."
- "If the user has more than 100 points..."

Today we want to **be careful about how we use these words**. To make things simple, we're going to use the following rules.

- "when": Means there is an onEvent to respond to user input. The app does something "when" the user clicks.
- "if": Means there is a conditional statement that decides what pieces of code to run. The app does something "if" a boolean expression evaluates to true.

**We'll talk more about this later but for now keep an eye out for the difference between "when" and "if".**

## Investigating Conditionals Activity

Now let's open up Code Studio

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 6 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/6/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

---

{% include responsive.html source="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0oG3Wck2fRU" %}

### Lemon Squeeze App Pt 1:

**Do This:**

Play the game at least once. Then with a partner, choose one of the three code sections below

- Section 1: lines 1 - 13
- Section 2: lines 16 - 30
- Section 3: lines 33 - 53

Read the code in your section carefully, making sure you understand how each line works.

**Discuss**

Find partners from the two other groups and:

- Explain what your section does
- Call out any lines of code you thought were interesting or confusing
- Ask good questions about how their section works, for example: "I don't understand this line" or "What does this command do?" or "Could your section have been written another way?"

**Modify**

Right now the game keeps going when the player has 0 lives. Fix this problem.

---

{% include responsive.html source="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZIL_3YRD14s" %}

<br/>

{% include responsive.html source="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aFssCTE5hs8" %}

### Lemon Squeeze Pt 2

**Do This**

- Play the game at least once.
- Discuss with a partner what's changed since last time in how the game works.
- Find the if-else-if statement that was added to the program.
- Draw a flowchart for the if-else-if statement
- Modify the program so that the lemon becomes even smaller when the user has more than 15 points.

---

{% include responsive.html source="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kyFdniI-ZZs" %}

### Lemon Squeeze Pt 3

**Do This**

- Play the game at least once.
- Discuss with a partner what's changed since last time in how the game works.
- Find the if-else-if statement that was added
- Draw a flowchart for the if-else-if statement that was added
- Modify the app to add one more username and password. You'll need to edit both the code and user interface. Warning: Use a fake password. It's never a good idea to use real passwords directly in your code like this.

## Wrap-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> When creating an if-else-if statement you should always make your first condition the most specific. Write a short paragraph responding to the questions below.</p>
  <ul>
    <li>What does it mean to put the most specific case first?</li>
    <li>Why is it important to put the most specific case first? What types of errors does it help avoid?</li>
  </ul>
</div>
