---
title: 4.A Conditionals Practice
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 4
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Write programs that use boolean expressions and conditional statements with the support of sample code.
  - Debug programs that use boolean expressions and conditional statements
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Warm-Up

Today we're going to have a chance to practice programming with a lot of the concepts and patterns we've explored over the last two lessons. I encourage you to go through these with a partner, but pay close attention to what each other is doing. In our next lesson you're going to have to use a lot of these on an independent project, and these activities are good practice for what you'll find there! Alright, let's get to it!

## Practing Conditionals Activity

Today you're mostly going to practice what we've learned about programming with conditionals. As always you should be using the debugging process to help you as you work on issues. Today we're also going to be working on finding two types of errors

1. Syntax errors show up when you type code that breaks the rules of the programming language. You can check for errors and warnings
2. Logic errors show up when you type valid code but it works incorrectly. Today you're going to focus on testing your code to make sure you don't have logic errors.

Other errors you may encounter include:

- Run-time error - a mistake in the program that shows when running the program. These are defined by the programming language.
- Overflow error - an error that occurs when a computer tries to handle a number outside of the defined range of values.

Open up Code Studio and complete levels 2-11

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 7 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/7/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

### Extension Opportunities:

Level 4: You can add more variables and create complex Boolean expressions. One challenge might be to assign a String to a variable and compare that string to another.
Level 10: There are multiple solutions. If you build your if-statement using only && try to figure out how to build it using only ||. You may need to switch the content of the if and else branches.
Level 11: Create another input (i.e. How many cats do you already own?). You can use this information to craft more complex if-statements.

## Wrap-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> What aspects of working with conditionals do you feel like clicked today? What do you still feel like you have trouble with?</p>
</div>

Conditionals can be a little bit tricky, but I saw a lot of good progress today in nailing down this concept. We may have a few lingering questions, but you also have a lot of resources available. Next time you'll have a chance to put all this together by programming an app that starts with "the blank screen"!

### AP Practice

The AP exam will use Pseudocode to ask questions about programming conepts. Open the Code Studio and complete Levels 12 & 13.

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 7 Level 12](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/7/puzzle/12){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}
