---
title: 4.A Conditionals Make
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 5
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Recognize the need for programming patterns with Boolean expressions and conditional statements as part of developing a functioning app
  - Implement programming patterns with boolean expressions and conditionals statements to develop a functioning app
  - Write comments to clearly explain both the purpose and function of different segments of code within an app
  - Use debugging skills as part of developing an app
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Warm-Up

For the past few days, we've learned a lot about using conditional statements to help apps make decisions. In today's Make Project you'll be practicing both making flow charts and writing complex conditionals statements as you build a Museum Ticket Generator app.

## Build the Museum Ticket Generator

Let's start by exploring the app you will build with a partner. Open the Code Studio level below and consider the reflection prompt as you explore.

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 8 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/8/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> Consider the following with your partner as you explore the app:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>What does this app do?</li>
    <li>What are the inputs?</li>
    <li>What are the outputs?</li>
    <li>What variables do you think would be necessary for this app to work?</li>
    <li>What kinds of conditional logic do you think are necessary to make it work?</li>
  </ul>
</div>

Now let's build the this app. The screen has been set up for you - it's your job to add the code! You'll be working with your partner on this one, so you'll need a copy of the activity guide below for your team. One teammate should make a copy and share it with the other as well as me (dbailey@k12k.com).

[Make One Copy of the Activity Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-Lv_5YdZ0CkkiI7OSmSVFMFoc4pRCBDsrVmonBA7J2Q/copy){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

Move on to level three and complete the Museum Ticket Generator App. If you finish before the end of class, work on the extension suggestions in the activity guide.

After you have finished, read through the rubric in the activity guide. Have you added comments? What about your variable names? Take a second to correct anything before you submit.

## Wrap-Up

You will need to submit your activity guide in the Unit 4 Digital journal. **Both partners should submit it.** Then respond to the journal prompt below.

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> What are the inputs and outputs for your app? How does your app use variables and coditional logic to process and store the data?</p>
</div>
