---
title: 4.A Functions Explore & Investigate
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 6
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Use appropriate vocabulary to describe the declaring and calling of functions
  - Trace the flow of execution in programs that declare and call functions
  - Describe the way a function call interrupts the normal flow of execution within a program
  - Modify programs that declare and call functions to adjust their functionality
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Warm-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em; margin-bottom: 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> Take a look at the activity guide below.</p>
  <ul>
    <li>In Style 1, what line of the song do you sing after line 09? What about in Style 2?</li>
    <li>Style 2 uses fewer lines to write. Are there fewer lyrics to sing?</li>
    <li>What are the benefits of writing a song in Style 2?</li>
  </ul>
</div>

{% include responsive.html source="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QKYSQtL4ftZPpveoyfcZVwy_BxYAOXIAkz8brl05JWc/preview" %}

This second song is written in a style that we're going to use to write some of our programs. In fact, we're going to start off by looking at a program that "sings" this exact same song.

## Exploring Functions Activity

Let's see what this looks like in Code Studio's App Lab.

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 9 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/9/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

### Level 2 - Explore Song Lyrics:

This level is a continuation of the Explore activity in the warmup. You should watch the code run slowly to see how the code that is running will jump down to the bottom of the program (the function declaration) when the name of the function is used (the function call).

### Level 3 - What Are Functions

{% include responsive.html source="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yPWQfa4CHbw" %}

Most important three takeaways are that:

- Functions are declared in your program in order to give a group of commands a name
- Functions are called to run those commands.
- A function is only declared once but is called as many times as you wish.

### Level 4 - Investigate Score Clicker

Follow the instructions to explore and discuss with a partner.

### Level 5 - Investigate Lemon Squeeze App with Functions

In this level, you are asked to create a function yourself by identifying repeated code. You'll need to create a single function for this repeated code. Work with your patner to discuss what the best way to approach this problem is.

### Level 6 - The Update Screen Pattern

Let's look at this pattern together as a class.

## Wrap-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em; margin: 2em 0 0 0;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> Reflecting on what you have learned about functions so far: What did you learn? What are you uncertain about?</p>
</div>
