---
title: 4.A Functions Practice
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 7
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Write programs that use functions with the support of sample code
  - Debug programs that use functions
  - Identify opportunities to use functions to reduce repeated code within a program
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Warm-Up

Today we're going to have a chance to practice programming with a lot of the concepts and patterns we've explored over the previous lessons. I encourage you to go through these with a partner, but pay close attention to what each other is doing. In our next lesson you're going to have to use a lot of these on an independent project, and these activities are good practice for what you'll find there! Alright, let's get to it!

## Practicing Functions Activity

Today you're mostly going to practice what we've learned about programming with functions. I'm here to help you when you need, and you can put this cup on your computer when you need help. However, I first want to remind you of the following:

- Use your debugging skills. Try to zoom in on precisely where you're getting stuck.
- Talk to your partner! That's what they're there for!
- Hover over blocks to read the documentation about how they work.
- Read the resources in the Help & Tips tab
- Talk to the group next to you. If another group asks for help make sure to take some time to talk it through with them.

You will have the remainder of class to complete Lesson 10: Level 2 - Level 10. Be sure to review the information on level 7 carefully.

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 10 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/10/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

## Wrap-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em; margin: 2em 0 0 0;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> What aspects of working with functions clicked today? What do you still feel like you have trouble with?</p>
</div>

### AP Practice Questions

Just like we did with previous lessons, you need practice reading Pseudocode that you will see on the AP exam. Open level 11 below and complete the questions.

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 10 Level 11](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/10/puzzle/11){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}
