---
title: 4.A Variables Explore
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 1
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Use appropriate vocabulary to describe variables, expressions, and variable assignment.
  - Evaluate expressions that include numbers, strings, and arithmetic operators.
  - Trace simple programs that use variables, expressions, and variable assignment.
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Introduction

In this unit we will use the Explore, Investigate, Practice, Make lesson sequence, or EIPM. The goal is to learn deeply about the topic at hand. While you may already know a little about variables, don't skip the process. The goal is not to just be able to provide a shallow definition of what a variable is. Instead you want to have a deep understanding of variables and how to apply them in programming. We will follow this pattern with each of the programming concepts in this unit.

## Warm-Up

**Do This:** Take 3-5 minutes to explore sample apps on Code.org using the link below. You can explore one or more as time allows

[Open Apps on Code.org](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/1/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> These are samples of the kinds of apps you'll be able to build by the end of this unit. As you go through them, write down at least two examples where the app seems to be keeping track of a piece of information or using it to make decisions.</p>
</div>

Last unit we built apps that mostly focus on input and output. For example

- When button clicked → show picture
- When button clicked → change screen
- When button clicked → play a sound

But we all want our programs to do more than that! In this unit we’re going to learn how to build apps that keep track of information and use to make decisions and perform calculations. This is going to let us build much more powerful apps! So let's get started by diving in deep on what's involved with programming with information.

## Exploring Variables Activity

For this activity you'll be working with a partner. You will need the following supplies:

- A small stack of red and yellow sticky notes
- A pen / pencil
- 3 plastic baggies
- A dry erase marker to share with another group

Follow along with me in class as we explore how variables work.

## Wrap-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> In your own words, define the following vocabulary to your journals: Expression, Variable, Assignment Operator. Think about how these terms are used in math class How are they used in similar ways? How are they different?</p>
</div>

This isn't the last time we'll look at these definitions and it's fine to update them as you get more experience. In fact, I'm sure you'll have a lot more to add once we see all of these concepts used inside of apps when we meet next time!
