---
title: 4.A Variables Practice
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 1
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Write programs that use variables and expressions with the support of sample code.
  - Debug programs that use variables and expressions
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Warm-Up

Now we're going to have a chance to practice programming with a lot of the concepts and patterns we've explored over the last two lessons. I encourage you to go through these with a partner, but pay close attention to what each other is doing. In our next lesson you're going to have to use a lot of these on an independent project, and these activities are good practice for what you'll find there! Alright, let's get to it!

## Practice with Variables

Today you're mostly going to practice what we've learned about programming with variables. As always you should be using the debugging process to help you as you work on issues.

Let's review the debugging process first. Debugging is the process of finding and fixing problems in code. We previously talked about these four steps: Describe, Hunt, Try, and Document.

In this practice, we're going to also focus on three particular debugging skills:

- Slowing down code with the speed slider
- Using console.log to get output
- Using the Watch area to watch your variables change values

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 3 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/3/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

{% include responsive.html source="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cAPQAB3SnRKarGzMrCj-TP3wu_2xSDQ9/preview" %}

## Wrap-Up

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> What aspects of working with variables do you feel like clicked today? What do you still feel like you have trouble with?</p>
</div>

Variables can be a little bit tricky, but we made some good progress today in nailing down this concept. You may have a few lingering questions, but you also have a lot of resources available. Next time you'll have a chance to put all this together by programming an app that starts with "the blank screen"!
