---
title: 4.B Decision Maker App Project
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 9
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Follow the design process to build an app.
  - Utilize variables, conditionals, and functions effectively.
  - Follow conventions for naming variables/functions.
  - Follow conventions for organizing code and use comments to explain the code.
dropbox:
  title: 4.B Decision Maker App Project Reflection
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/assignments/266217
---

## Warm-Up

The Create Performance Task will require you to program an app from scratch on your own. This project will be our first Practice Performance Task, which will challenge you to create an app of your own design. This time you'll have guidance.

## Exploring Examples

Let's start by exploring some expamples.

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 12 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/11/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

For this project you will create an app that helps a user make a decision. Your app must take in at least one number and one string from the user that will help to make the decision. All of this information will be used as part of the decision making process. In addition, your code must include at least one function used to update the screen.

We'll be using the Code Studio App Lab but not the designated levels. This project will be a practice for the Create Peformance Task.

[Open the Code Studio App Lab](https://studio.code.org/projects/applab/){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

## Wrap-Up

Before you submit, please review the rubric and make revisions. In the dropbox, you should include a link to your project (hit the share button on the top left and copy the URL) and your responses to the following prompts. Additionally, you will turn in your paper copy of the planning guide.

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em; margin: 2em 0 0 0;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>Question 1:</strong> Provide a written response that:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>describes the overall purpose of the program </li>
    <li>describes the functionality of your app</li>
    <li>describes the input and outputs of your app</li>
  </ul>
  <p>(Approx 150 words)</p>
</div>

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em; margin: 2em 0 0 0;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>Question 2:</strong> This project was created using a development process that required you to incorporate the ideas and feedback from your classmates. Provide a written response that describes one part of your app that was improved through input from feedback you received from classmates. Include:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Who specifically provided the idea or recommendation</li>
    <li>What their idea or recommendation was</li>
    <li>The specific change you made to your app’s user interface or functionality in response to the recommendation</li>
    <li>How you believe this change improved your app</li>
  </ul>
  <p>(Approx 150 words)</p>
</div>
