---
title: 4.A Variables Investigate
unit: Variables, Conditionals, and Functions
order: 1
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Identify common programming patterns when using variables as part of an app
  - Explain the purpose of those programming patterns with variables both in terms of how they work and what they accomplish
  - Modify apps that make use of common programming patterns with variables to adjust their functionality
dropbox:
  title: 4.A Unit 4 Digital Journal
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/discussion_topics/35531
---

## Warm-Up

In our exploration, we explored storing information like a computer. Computers store each piece of information in a variable. In Javascript, we name or declare a variable with the keyword var. Now we are going to look at a new app that stores information in variables.

[Open Apps on Code.org](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/1/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em; margin-bottom: 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>🤔 Reflect:</strong> These are samples of the kinds of apps you'll be able to build by the end of this unit. As you go through them, write down at least two examples where the app seems to be keeping track of a piece of information or using it to make decisions.</p>
</div>

## Let's Investigate

[Open Code Studio, Lesson 2 Level 2](https://studio.code.org/s/csp4-2020/stage/2/puzzle/2){: style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 5px; padding: 8px 10px; background: #efefef;" target="\_blank"}

Use the following times to help you stay on track.

- Investigation #1: Thermostat App v.1 (Levels 2 - 3) - 10 mins

- Investigation #2: Thermostat App v.2 (Level 4) - 10 mins

- Investigation #3: Thermostat App v.3 (Levels 5 - 6) - 8 mins

## Patterns

We are learning two patterns here:

- Counter Pattern with Event
- Variables with String Concatenation Pattern

The Counter Pattern with Event is a common pattern for updating variables that you will use in making many different apps. We call it the Counter Pattern with Event.

Variables can store many different types of information including numbers and Strings. Anything placed inside of the quotation marks becomes a String.

Guess what! There's a pattern for working with Strings. When we want to combine Strings with other Strings, numbers, or even with another variable we call that **concatenation**.

## Wrap-Up

The patterns we learned today are present in many different kinds of apps. As we learn new patterns, they will show up in the "Help & Tips" tab at the top of your screen on programming levels.

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 15px; padding: 0.5em 2em 1em 2em;">
  <p class="text-xl"><strong>✍️ Journal:</strong> Reflect on what we have learned so far. What can be stored in a variable? Why is using a meaningful name for the variable important?</p>
</div>
