---
title: 1.C Code Ch 1 & 2
unit: Digtial Information
order: 9
is_assignment: true
objectives:
  - Compare other types of code with binary computer code
  - Examine the relationship between mathematics and language with developing code
est_time: 30 - 45 mins
dropbox:
  title: 1.C Code Ch 1 & 2
  url: https://kingsport.instructure.com/courses/21067/assignments/233190
---

## Code by Charles Petzold

Charles Petzold does an excellent job illustrating how codes are developed. I'd highly recommend the book if you are curious how we went from mechanical computers to the computer you carry around in your pocket everyday. We are going to read the first two chapters which is a concise explanation of how codes are developed.

As you read, consider the corelations between things like Morse Code and computer code. How is this related to what computers do to represent information? What role does mathematics play in this process? What role does language play?

{% include responsive.html source="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1K6CYBxDXS9sxnCsvqnmOnLaVt-WSul1W/preview" %}
<small>**Note:** The document above will only appear if you are logged in using your k12k.com email address. If you are unable to view it, visit [https://drive.google.com/file/d/1K6CYBxDXS9sxnCsvqnmOnLaVt-WSul1W/preview](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1K6CYBxDXS9sxnCsvqnmOnLaVt-WSul1W/preview) and make sure you are logged in to the correct account.</small>

## Reflection

After you have read the chapters, go to the dropbox above and write a mini essay (no more than 300 words) comparing what you read with what you have been learning about the way computers represent information. How does representing information in code fundmentally change the information? What are some of the impacts of impacts of encoding data? What is lost? What is gained?

Strong responses will be concise while addressing the topic with supporting details.

The AP exam will require you to write concisely in usually 150-200 word sections. This will be good practice writing and editing your thoughts. I'd recomend writing this in a Google Doc and then copy and pasting it into Canvas for submission.
